having had a look at the environment in which will be working.
Let's now move on to write our first user defined function.
709 Getting started with the V A.
Let's open up number three and we want the Excel version right in the UDF in the macro
enabled workbook the next Senate Sex.
As we've seen to write a user defined function in the developer tab,
we click on visual Basic,
and this takes us into what's told Visual basic editor.
We have,
ah,
Project Explorer Window open on.
The first thing that we need to do is to create a container or our user defined function,
and the appropriate container is referred to as a model models.
They used a store of Mac Rose and user defined functions you can inside a module in two
ways.
In the menus get to insert singers module,
and I think probably guess,
if you right click on the projects,
you'll see that insert is available in the context menu and even the interest use module.
Since the module is a container for code,
naturally it has associated with it a code window inside of which you write your code When
you create the module,
the code window opens automatically,
and you can close it and reopen it at any time.
Close the code when they use the small X The large axes,
obviously,
for closing the visual basic editor completely.
So when I click here that closes the code window.
The module one.
The model I have just created anybody double click on Module one again that reopens the
code window.
When you start writing user defined functions,
you may decide to store them in several different modules.
So it's a good idea to come up with a name in system so that you know which module contains
which function.
To change the name of a model that you can probably guess.
We use our properties window.
Close the properties.
When those.
I could just remind you that to make it visible,
we went to view properties window.
So with Model One selected,
you'll notice that there is only a single property available,
and that's the name of the module.
Let's just call it M basics.
As with named Ranges,
spaces are not allowed in the name of a model and the convention of starting the name with
a capital M purely distinguishes it from other objects that you may encounter while you're
right in your BB a code.
So we now have a module which will act as a container for any user defined functions that
we right.
Let's now move on to writing the user defined function.
The simplest way is to go to inserts and shoes procedure because a function is a type of
procedure.
Then in the type section we click on function and we leave the scope set to public.
And finally we come up with a name for the function.
The function that we're going to write in this example is really basic.
It simply returns a piece of text.
Let's go back into the training folder and you'll see that as well as the Excel file.
We haven't identically named text file.
If you open that,
you'll see the text that we want our user defined function to inset on.
The reason for taking this approach might be where you have a standard piece of text that
needs to be worded in a specific fashion on which may occasionally need to be updated.
So if you insert it by using a user defined function.
When you redefine the user defined function,
when you have in the workbook,
you'll find the new version of that text.
So while we're here,
that's places on the clipboard.
And then let's get back to Excel.
And now we can enter a suitable vein,
so I'm just going to call it confidential and click OK and that causes Excel to insert the
function code.
And of course,
there's nothing to stop us simply right in that code rather than use in inset function.
So the key words are public function and end function.
And then we've got the name that we've chosen and parentheses.
The parentheses have exactly the same purpose as they do with excels built in functions,
their containers for arguments.
However,
as with some Excel functions such as today and now,
notable functions require arguments.
Let's go to be the case in our first function.
We don't need any arguments,
But as with Excel functions,
even if you don't need arguments,
you still need the parentheses on the final piece of infrastructure that we need to put in
place is to define the type of data which are function,
will return or produce and In this case,
it's clearly a piece of text to specify the data type.
You simply type the keywords as when you hit the space bar.
Excel gives you a long list of all the different types of data that your function they
return on in B B A.
The word for text is string.
They find type S T or rather str We'll see that string is highlighted in the list and then
they can just press the tab key to insert it.
So that's the mechanism.
But he fine in a function and specifying the type of data it returns.
Now we need to specifically say what that data actually consists off.
So that's the code that I've currently got on my clipboard.
I'm just gonna press the tab key to in dense the line of code and I'm gonna write that is
purely for readability.
Specify what the function produces.
The results of the function used.
The key word let in the name of the function and you'll notice that I typed it with lower
case.
Since I've defined it with another case,
C even if I type it with lower case,
Excel will always capitalize.
It it will follow,
the case indicated in the definition.
So let the name of my function confidential equal the result of my function.
What I want my function to produce.
And in this case,
because it's text,
we put quotation marks,
and then we can just copy that long stream because it is a long string.
It's a good idea to split it onto several lines for readability,
so that when you look at your code,
you don't have to constantly scroll left and right to split this line of text.
We simply end the string,
so I'll end it here.
And in fact,
that has noticed that the word Andi is missing.
This report is confidential and should only be viewed.
So that's just a little bit and in spirit here suspect it.
We put closing quotes.
I m percent what we've encountered many times in our functions and formulas.
And then you put an underscore.
So space,
followed by an underscore,
is the signal a split in a line in B B A,
and you do that whenever a line is going right off the screen.
So now I can just press return but open quotation marks on these two lines are now going to
be treated as a single one,
So that's an example of the simplest type of user defined function that you can create.
It has a name,
and whenever it's used,
it simply returns a literal value in this case,
a string which I,
incidentally,
have to terminates with a closing quotation mark.
Whatever you finished writing code.
If all test in it,
you can go to the debug menu and truce,
compile and acceptable.
Then I like the first error that you made,
which will prevent the code from running,
and you repeat that process until you've got no errors.
Obviously,
in this example,
there's not much room.
Ferreira,
so we haven't made any errors were now ready to test our function so close of E.
B.
A.
And to find out function,
we can simply start to type it.
So if I type equals c o N f,
you'll see it comes up in the list.
And as usual,
I don't even have to put the clothes in parenthesis.
When I present up comes my text.
So in this example,
were actually storing the user defined function within the workbook itself.
It's not being stored in an external resource.
Whenever that's the case,
the workbook has to be saved Is a macro enabled workbook So any VB a code that you put
inside a workbook requires that the workbook be saved as macro enable.
So to do that,
we simply go to file save as a man in the savers type section,
we choose Excel macro enabled workbook from the drop down and then save.